Using Quarterly Interpolated Data for Model Development
For the current IFRS 9 Model Redevelopment exercise, 700+ Macroeconomic Variables (MEVs) from Oxford Economics (OE ) were sourced to expand the variable base. 
All the variables are available at the annual level except for the 13 macroeconomic variables, which are available at the quarterly level. However, the internal 
observed default rate (ODR) is available quarterly. To run the regression model with ODRs, macroeconomic variables need to be converted at the quarterly level. 
The Banks contacted the OE to get all the variables at the quarterly level but found that only 13 variables  are available at a quarterly frequency, and the rest
are available at an annual frequency. Hence, the model development team has decided to use interpolation to convert the macroeconomic variable quarterly from annual. 
The model development team, with their extensive expertise, has tried and tested linear and cubic interpolation techniques to generate the quarterly data. This 
ensures that the best interpolation technique has been selected. The modelling team has used the 13 variables available at a quarterly frequency and compared 
quarterly interpolated values of these variables using metrics like RMSE and MAPE, R^2,  etc. (Refer to the IFRS 9 Data Transformation Document for more details 
on this analysis). After performing this analysis, linear interpolation was selected as the better method, and all 700+ MEVs were interpolated quarterly.  
Additionally, model developers have sourced the MEVs from secondary sources such as FRED, IMF, SAMA statistical reports and the KSA general authority for statistics. 
Some sources provide quarterly data for MEVs, such as CPI, nominal GDP, etc. Model developers have performed the correlation analysis (refer to the Data
Transformation document for more detail) of the quarterly interpolated data sourced from OE and common MEVs extracted from secondary sources. Correlation analysis 
suggests that the interpolated data aligns with the MEVs sourced from secondary sources. This gives more confidence that the interpolation performed on the annual 
data is suitable for modelling ODRs at a quarterly frequency. 
However, model developers understand that the above analysis may not be sufficient to generalise for all 700+ MEVs (sourced from OE at annual frequency). But, 
given the data limitation, this is the best that can be performed. Also, SAMA guidelines have no specific requirement or restriction that interpolated data can’t 
be used for modelling. However, as a best practice, model developers referred to other regulatory guidelines and found that interpolated data can be used for 
modelling . Hence, model developers have decided to proceed with quarterly interpolated data for modelling. 

Foot Note

  The Bank is subscribed to Oxford Economic for Macroeconomic variables
  Model developers have tried using these 13 variables for modelling (given that it is available at the quarterly frequency), but none of them were found to be statistically significant. 
  Refer to CBUAE guideline article 5.2.6 https://rulebook.centralbank.ae/en/rulebook/52-data-collection 
